Book writing -- 01-12-2023

2.5	Financial functions

Financial functions in DAX are used in formulas that perform financial calculations, such as net present value and rate of return. 

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dax/financial-functions-dax

ACCRINT	Returns the accrued interest for a security that pays periodic interest.
ACCRINTM	Returns the accrued interest for a security that pays interest at maturity
DB	Returns the depreciation of an asset for a specific period using the fixed decilining balance method
DDB	Returns the depreciation of an asset for a specific period using the double decilining balance method or some other method you specify
PMT	Calculates the payment for a loan based on constant payments and a constant interest rate.
PV	Calculates the present value of a loan or an investment, based on a constant interest rate.
YIELD	Returns the yield on a security that pays periodic interest.

	
2.6	Table manipulation functions

These functions return a table or manipulate existing tables.

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dax/table-manipulation-functions-dax

Some of these functions are given below in the Tab.2.6:

ADDCOLUMNS	Adds calculated columns to the given table or table expression.
ADDMISSINGITEMS	Adds combination of items from multiple columns to a table if they do not already exist.
DATATABLE	Provides a mechanism for declaring an inline set of data values.
ROLLUP	Modifies the behavior of SUMMARIZE by adding rollup rows to the result on columns defined by the groupBy_columnName parameter.
SELECTCOLUMNS	Adds calculated columns to the given table or table expression.
SUMMARIZE	Returns a summary table for the requested totals over a set of groups.
SUMMARIZECOLUMNS	Returns a summary table over a set of groups
VALUES	Returns a one-column table that contains the distinct values from the specified table or column.

Tab.2.4. Filter Functions (Partial list)
Tab.2.5. Financial Functions (Partial list)
Tab.2.6. Table Manipulation Functions (Partial list)

